

Authors: Lucas Krüger1,2, Dolores Deregibus3,4, Lorena Rebolledo1, Francisco Santa Cruz1,2,5, Mercedes Santos3
1 Departamento Científico, Instituto Antártico Chileno, Punta Arenas, Chile
2 Millennium Institute Biodiversity of Antarctic and Subantarctic Ecosystems (BASE), Santiago, Chile.
3 Instituto Antártico Argentino, Buenos Aires, Argentina
4 Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Buenos Aires, Argentina.
5 Doctorado en Ciencias Antárticas & Subantárticas (DOCAS), Universidad de Magallanes, Punta Arenas, Chile.


Tracking data for each species was given a seasonality attributing it to a 3-month period: October, November and December (OND), January, February and March (JFM), April May and June (AMJ), July August and September (JAS); from that data, 10km x 10km spatial grids were generated to calculate occurrence through the different periods. Each of those grids for each of the species were considered a layer. For instance, Antarctic Fur Seal Distribution has 4 layers, one for each 3-month period. Non-dynamic layers, that is, those not based on tracking data, were considered as a single layer, independently of the temporality of it. For instance, chinstrap penguin colonies are active prominently from October to March, therefore, they would represent OND and JFM periods. However, it counts as one layer as its location did not change between both periods.
Krill 
Since 2019 CCAMLR scientists have been reviewing the management strategy for krill fishing, and during the process, it became clear the need for the establishment of a Krill Stock Hypothesis. The SCAR Krill Expert Group (SKEG) was then organised together with external scientists outside CCAMLR in order to achieve a design through collective knowledge of krill experts around the world added to evidence published from literature (Ryabov et al. 2017; Atkinson et al. 2019; Perry et al. 2019; Ichii et al. 2020). A first view of the krill stock structure and dynamic was then proposed (Meyer et al. 2023), identifying the most likely spawning grounds, juvenile recruitment and paths of dispersal and retention. 
Information on the distribution of spawning grounds and recruitment hotspots (Figure 1a) were used separated by sectors, as it is important to have a balanced coverage throughout the area in order to guarantee that important areas are not fished entirely, which, in years of low productivity could have impacts over krill populations (Meyer et al. 2020), predators (Watters et al. 2020; Ratcliffe et al. 2021; Krüger et al. 2021) and the fishery itself (Santa Cruz et al. 2022). Evidences in literature point out that maintaining a percentage of important breeding grounds for exploited species can even boost fishing in adjacent waters (Goñi et al. 2008; Di Lorenzo et al. 2016, 2020; Marshall et al. 2019; Lenihan et al. 2021; Ziegler et al. 2022); whilst that has been tested for Antarctic Krill only in modelling exercises (Dahood et al. 2020), in lack of further evidence the precautionary approach adopted by CCAMLR should consider this measure as an important aspect of the krill fishing management (Garcia 1994; Hanchet et al. 2014; Lauck et al. 2014; Hill et al. 2016). Therefore, a percentage of those areas should receive no-take area status.
Krill predators
Predators that depend on krill as its main diet during a part of their breeding cycle with openly available data were included in the evaluation (Table 1): Humpback whales Megaptera novaengliae, Antarctic minke whale Eubalaena bonariensis, Fin Whale Eubalaena physalus  (Santora et al. 2010; Viquerat and Herr 2017; Friedlaender et al. 2021; Reisinger et al. 2021; Seyboth et al. 2021; Herr et al. 2022), Antarctic fur seal Arctocephalus gazella including adults and juvenile tracking data from Cape Shirreff breeding colony (Boveng et al. 1998; Casaux et al. 2003; Osman et al. 2004; Waluda et al. 2010; Harrington et al. 2017; Hinke et al. 2017; Ropert-Coudert et al. 2020; Krause et al. 2022), Crabeater seal Lobodon carcinophaga (Hückstädt et al. 2012, 2020; Southwell et al. 2012; Botta et al. 2018; Ropert-Coudert et al. 2020), Southern elephant seal Mirounga leonina (Walters et al. 2014; Ropert-Coudert et al. 2020), Adelie Pygoscelis adeliae, chinstrap P. antarcticus and gentoo P. papua penguins (Lynnes et al. 2004; Hinke et al. 2017, 2020; Humphries et al. 2017; Juáres et al. 2018; Ropert-Coudert et al. 2020; Korczak-Abshire et al. 2021; Handley et al. 2021; Wawrzynek-Borejko et al. 2022; Lynch et al. 2024) and Emperor penguin Atenodytes forsteri (Ratcliffe and Trathan 2012; Humphries et al. 2017; Fretwell and Trathan 2020; Jafari et al. 2021; Handley et al. 2021; Lynch et al. 2024; Trathan et al. 2024).
Table S1. Conservation objects and description of layers, updated (2024) and used for PACs generation in the previous D1MPA design (2023). 
		2024	2023
Group	Object	Description	Periodicity	N layers	Description	Periodicity	N layers
Cetacea	Humpback whale  distribution	Argos tracking	JFM, AMJ	2	Argos tracking	Jan to Jun	1
	Humpback and Fin whale aggregations	Sightings of whale aggregations onboard research vessels	JFM	1	-	-	0
	Minke Whale  distribution	Argos tracking	JFM, AMJ	2	Argos tracking	Jan to Jun	1
Pinniped	Antarctic Fur Seal distribution	Argos tracking	Year-round	4	Argos tracking	Year-round	1
	Antarctic Fur Seal breeding sites	40km from known breeding sites	OND, JFM	1	Buffer around known breeding sites	OND, JFM	1
	Crabeater Seal distribution	Argos tracking	AMJ, JAS, OND	3	-	-	0
	Southern Elephant Seal distribution	Argos tracking	Year-round	4	Argos tracking	Year-round	1
Penguins	Adelie penguin migration	Tracking of animals from three breeding colonies	JFM, AMJ	1	Tracking of animals from three breeding colonies	JFM, AMJ	1
	Adelie penguin breeding sites	Biologically important areas for penguins	OND-JFM	1	Buffer around known penguin colonies	October to March	1
	Chinstrap Penguin pos-breeding dispersal	Tracking of animals from three breeding colonies	AMJ, JAS	2	Tracking of animals from three breeding colonies	April to September	1
	Chinstrap Penguin breeding sites	Biologically important areas for penguins	OND-JFM	1	Buffer around known penguin colonies	October to March	1
	Gentoo Penguin non-breeding distribution	Tracking of animals from seven breeding colonies	JFM, AMJ	2	Tracking of animals from three breeding colonies	JFM, AMJ	1
	Gentoo Penguin breeding sites	Biologically important areas for penguins	OND-JFM	1	Buffer around known penguin colonies	October to March	1
	Emperor Penguin breeding sites	100 kms from 3 breeding colonies with land as barrier	April to December	1	100 kms buffer around two breeding colonies	April to December	1
Fish	Adult habitats	Based on known vertical distribution of species	October to March	1	Based on known vertical distribution of species	October to March	1
	Larvae habitats	Based on known vertical distribution of species	October to March	1	Based on known vertical distribution of species	October to March	1
Krill	Spawning grounds	Krill stock from SKEG report	JFM	1	-	-	0
	Juvenile recruitment areas	Krill stock from SKEG report	JFM	1	-	-	0
	Krill density	Krillbase data	Year-round	1	Krillbase data	Year-round	1
			N object	19		N objects	15
			N layers	31		N layers	15


Penguin breeding distribution
Handley et al. (2021) applied the Birdlife International concept of Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas (IBA) to identify significant hotspots for Pygoscelis and Emperor penguins throughout Antarctica, taking into account population size, at-sea distribution and species phenology. Areas identified as important for the 3 Pygoscelis penguin species were used as separated layers (Fig 1b), which, considering the breeding phenology of the species (Handley et al. 2021), would be used by penguins in breeding activity between October to March. Handley et al. (2021) only identified one important area for Emperor Penguins in Domain 1, however, other two breeding sites are known (Fretwell and Trathan 2020). Given the likely vulnerability of the Emperor penguins to the Climate Change and extreme climatic events (Jenouvrier et al. 2021) we consider it important to use all the 3 breeding sites as relevant for the domain 1 area. Based on tracking data of Emperor Penguin from colonies outside Domain 1 (Andrews et al. 2008; Houstin et al. 2022) and from Rothschild Island (Trathan et al. 2024) it is expected that a radius of 100 km around the colony is important during breeding activities, Therefore, importance was calculated considering a 100km radius and calculating the Euclidean distance from the last known colony position using land as a barrier. Recent publications have shown that colonies can shift position several tens of kms from the previous position in case of sea ice retraction (Fretwell and Trathan 2020; Krüger et al. 2023).
Whale aggregations
Aggregations of large groups of foraging baleen whales have been recorded in recent years, indicating important foraging grounds for fin and humpback whales  (Viquerat and Herr 2017; Herr et al. 2022). 
Antarctic fur seal Breeding Sites
Antarctic fur seal breeding sites with unavailable tracking data was collated from different sources: Seal Islands, Stinker Point (Elephant Island), and King George Island (Boveng et al. 1998; Waluda et al. 2010; Krause et al. 2022). Based on tracking data for the Cape Shirreff (Livingston Island) breeding site, a 40 kms radius (see tracking data section) using continents as barriers was generated in ArcMap to identify the most likely area used by breeding Antarctic fur seals.
Tracking data
Tracking data for 8 species was collated from different sources (table 2). Representativeness of the tracking data was also considered, by evaluation of the number of individuals tracked throughout time (Table 2). For instance, the best available tracking data for Weddell Seals in Domain 1 (Ropert-Coudert et al. 2020)  only had data for two individuals in the WAP, therefore it was not used. So the evaluation includes further data for 6 of the 8 tracked species.
Processing of tracking data
ARGOS geographical fixes with low quality were removed from the tracking data, and a posterior distance filter was applied to eliminate unlikely locations. Data was aggregated over 3-months periods, or year quarters, as 1-JFM, 2-AMJ, 3-JAS and 4-OND.  Importance of an area was calculated as area usage through cumulative time residency using the ‘trip’ R package. Trip R-packageand uses a Bayesian approach to  regularise tracking data and calculate time-residency per individual. A sum of individual time-residency values was used. All layers were rescaled to the maximum value, in order to vary from 0 to 1, and posteriorly binarized using the higher 5% quantile of the values to identify the more important areas from each species per period.
Identification of important areas for krill and predators
Layers used to generate the PACs in the previous designs of D1MPA were binarized and also used to quantify important areas for krill and predators (example in Fig S1). All binarized layers were summed in order to identify sites that were used consistently throughout the year for several conservation objectives (figure S2 to S8).

